Gloombah! - A simplified web-based dungeon crawler card game.

Rules:
  Players: 2-6
  Playtime: 1-3 hours, depending on how big of dicks you are to your friends

  Stat Types:
    * Player
      * Level/AP - Level and AP (Attack Points) are interchangable in the context
                   of this game. The damage a player does is linked directly with
                   his/her level and as such may be used in place of one another
                   in the remainder of this guide.
      * Armor    - Armor is determined by the quality of the Gear equipped by the
                   Player. This stat is discussed below in the Gear section of
                   Items.
    * Monster
      * Level/AP - This is the same as for Players, though Monsters do not equip
                   Gear nor Weapons, so this is a static value which can only be
                   changed using Status Effects.
      * Damage   - This is the amount of damage the Player takes if he/she loses
                   a fight with this monster. This is explained more in the Gear
                   section of Items as well the Losing section of Fighting.
      * XP       - This refers to the number of Levels/AP the player defeating this
                   monster will obtain. If the monster is fought together by multiple
                   Players the XP may be shared between the two, but only to the
                   number shown on the Monster's card.
      * Treasure - This number determines the number of Item cards a Player can draw
                   if the Monster is defeated. As with XP, if multiple Players are
                   fighting the monster together these items can be split between
                   the parties up to the number of item cards allowed by the Monster.

  Card Types:
    * Class   - Warrior, Rogue or Mage. These classes determine the types of weapons
                you can equip and use, as well as giving special bonuses/detriments
                against certain enemies.
    * Item    - Item cards are Gear, Weapons or Consumables. These ca considered to
                be the "treasure" cards received generally from defeating monsters.
    * Monster - The Monster cards are pulled randomly each player's turn. They will
                contain 5 stats: Attack Rating, Damage, Effects, XP, and Treasure.

  Items:
    * Gear    - These are wearables that protect the player from lost fights. Each
                piece of gear has a set amount of damage it can take before breaking,
                shown in the upper left corner. If the damage taken is over that value
                the gear will 'break' and head to the discard pile. If the gear absorbs
                the damage and is not broken it will be 'damaged.' Damaged gear can
                be 'repaired' at the beginning of the player's next turn, but will
                'break' if it takes damage again. None of the damage absorbed by
                gear will effect the player. Example: If a monster hits Player A
                for 5 damage but he is wearing Light Chainmail, the Light Chainmail
                will break and Player A takes 3 damage. If Player B takes 2 damage
                while wearing Steel Plate, however, the Steel Plate is damaged and
                turned on its side but Player B takes no damage.
                *It is important to note that some Damage is considered Armor-Piercing
                *and attacks the player directly. This causes armor to take no damage
                *but will kill a well armored player as easily as if they were wearing
                *nothing at all. Plan these fights accordingly.
    * Weapons - Weapons can only be equipped by the allowed class, marked in the upper
                right corner. The damage bonus for the weapon is shown in the upper
                left corner with a plus (+) next to it. This value is added to the
                Player's Attack Points (Level) when determining if the Player or
                Monster wins the attack.
    * Consumables - Consumables are single-use items which can be obtained the same
                way as Gear and Weapons. Unlike Gear and Weapons, however, these
                items can be either helpful or detremental to the Players fighting.
                Certain consumables, such as Duplicate and Curse of Weakness, can
                be used when other Players are fighting in order to assist the Monster
                fighting the other Player. Damaging Consumables cannot be used
                against friendly players, however, only those Consumables which
                cause status effects, such as Destroy Armor, or those which are
                meant specifically for monsters, such as Ambush. These items are
                marked with a Backstab symbol on them for clarity.
  Fighting:
    * Attack  - The winner of each fight is determined by comparing the Attack Points
                for each side. The attack points for Players is determined thusly:
                  ((Player Level + Weapon Bonus) * Status Effects)  + Consumable Bonus
                                  ( round up )                 
                So a level 5 player with a +2 weapon using a +4 Exploding Vile with
                a +50% Attack Buff will do (5+2) * 1.5 + 2 = 13AP. If they are
                fighting a 12AP Monster, then they won the fight by 1AP.
    * Winning - Winning a fight means the Player(s) aquire the XP shown on the
                bottom of the enemy's card as well as getting to draw the number
                of Treasure cards shown.
    * Losing  - Losing a fight means the player will have to take Damage equal to
                the Damage rating shown in the middle of the Monster card as well
                as suffer any status effects for the next full round (explained below).
                How damage is taken is described above under the "Gear" section.
  Status Effects:
    * Effect Cards - Effect cards only work for the fight they are played in and
                dissipate at the end. This includes Blessings as well as Curses.
    * Monster Effects - Effects caused by losing to a Monster stay in effect until
                the end of the following round. This means every time the Player
                attempts to attack, even when helping other players, they must
                take into account the status effect they encurred during the
                previous fight.
  Death:
    * Death happens whenever a player takes damage beyond their availble AP. This
                means that if a player takes 6 points of damage at level 6 with
                no armor then they are reduced to 0AP. The minimum required AP
                is 1, so that player is, for all intents and purposes, dead. Death,
                however, is fleeting in Gloombah, and the player is allowed to
                discard all but 1 card in his hand and start over at level 1. Gear
                and Weapons currently in use are discarded but the player is unable
                to choose a new class.

  Setup:
    1. Each player draws one (1) "Class" card from the "Class" deck
       then 5 item cards.
    2. Players will then show their "Class" card and equip any available
       Gear or Weapons drawn in step 1. Only 1 (one) Gear and 1 (one) Weapon
       card can be equipped at any given time.

  Player Turn:
    1. Player can use any non-combat Consumable cards and Repair Armor
    2. Player draws a Monster card into play
    3. Player chooses whether to Fight or Run
      * Players under Level 3 have the choice to Auto-Run with no penelty
      * If the Player is Level 3 or above then they must roll 2d6 and attemp
        to get a combined number of their number or higher
      * If the Player chooses to run but does not wish to leave the escape
        to change they may discard all cards in their hand and flee.
    4. Fight
      * The Player will fight either by choice or if they lose the roll above
      * During the fight other players may interact with the Monster or Player
        * Helpful players may offer support to the Player fighting in exchange
          for part of the reward for winning the Fight. If the fight is lost,
          however, both player share the same losing effects, the damage and
          status effects are not split. Both are dealt the full power of the
          winning Monster.
        * Dubious players may use this time to play Item cards which can sway
          the outcome of the fight against the Player fighting. Make sure and
          only use those cards which are marked with the Backstab symbol.
    5. Post-Fight
      * Winning players may obtain the XP and Treasure items determined by the
        monster card they just defeated
      * Losing players will calculate whether or not they take damage based
        on their armor values, whether they lose or keep their armor, and whether
        they lose or keep their Level/AP. Status effects are doled out if
        applicable.

  Game Over:
    1. The game is over when the first player reaches Level 12.
      * Level 12 can only be reached by defeating a monster, meaning a player
        cannot hold onto a Level Up card until level 11 to play it. Also,
        the final level must be gained on the player's turn, meaning a Level 10
        cannot help another Player in exchange for 2 levels and win the game.
        The Level 10 must wait until a 2XP monster is drawn on their turn for play.
